## Azure Compute Services

- Azure compute is an on-demand computing service to run cloud-based applications.
- Azure supports a wide range of solutions for development and testing, running applications in production, and extending a client's datacenter.

### Azure Virtual Machines

- Software emulations of physical computers.
- Includes a virtual processor, memory, storage, networking resources, and host operating systems.
- IaaS. Total control over the software environment (OS, etc.).
- Ideal choice when you need:
  - Total control over the OS.
  - Run custom software.
  - Custom hosting configurations.

### Virtual machine scale sets

- Deploy and manage a set of identical load-balanced VMs.
- Designed to support autoscale in response to demand or a defined schedule.
- Provides availability, scalability and redundancy.

### Azure Batch

- Enables large-scale parallel and [high-performance computing](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/4595/high-performance-computing-hpc) (HPC) batch jobs with the ability to scale to thousands of VMs.
- A job runs like the following:
  1. Starts a pool of compute VMs.
  2. Installs applications and staging data.
  3. Runs jobs with as many tasks as you have.
  4. Identifies failures.
  5. Requeues work.
  6. Scales down the pool as work completes.

### Containers and Kubernetes

- Compute resources used to deploy and manage containers.
- Containers are lightweight, virtualized environments.
- Simple definition of the difference between a VM and a container:
  - VMs virtualize/emulate hardware, containers virtualize/emulate OS.
- Quick creation, scaled out (horizontally) and stopped dynamically.
- Multiple instances can be run on the same host machine with container cluster orchestration (Kubernetes).
- When to use:
  - Run multiple instances of an application on a single host machine.
  - Often used with [microservice architecture solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/architecture-styles/microservices).

#### Azure Container Instances

- Fastest and simplest way to run a container in Azure.
- PaaS, just upload the container.

#### Azure Kubernetes Service

- Orchestration is the automation, management and interaction with a large number of containers and how they interact.
- Azure Kubernetes Service is a complete orchestration service for containers with distributed architectures.
- Manual and automatic scaling.
- Load balancing across multiple replicas.
- Policy driven network security.

### App Service

- Quickly build, deploy, run and scale web, mobile back-ends, and web API enterprise-grade apps, background jobs, etc.
- It supports many programming tech stacks.
- Supports automatic deployments any Git repo with continuous deployment models, such as GitHub, Azure DevOps, etc.
- PaaS. Fully managed infrastructure, Windows and Linux.
- You pay for the compute resources your app uses while it processes requests.
- Built-in load balancing and traffic manager.

### Functions

- ***Serverless* computing**. Abstraction of servers, infrastructure and operating systems.
- PaaS.
- Commonly used on event driven architecture/design.
- Abstraction of servers
  - Each function can run on a different compute instance.
  - You just deploy the function and the platform manages it elastically.
- Event-driven scale
  - Is excellent for work that responds to incoming events.
  - Perform work in response to an event.
  - Some triggers include: HTTP (API, webhooks, etc.), timers, queues, etc.
  - Scaling and performance are handled automatically.
- Micro-billing
  - A client pays only for the time their code runs.
  - If no function execution occurs, they're not charged.
- Azure has two implementations of serverless compute:
  - Azure Functions
    - Used when you're only concerned about the code running your service, and not the underlying platform or infrastructure.
    - Abstraction of servers, event-driven scale, micro-billing.
    - Created with code.
    - Can run locally or in the cloud.
  - Azure Logic Apps
    - Similar to functions, but where functions execute code, logic apps execute *workflows* to automate multiple business scenarios.
    - Built from predefined logic blocks, that include data conversions and flow controls, and connectors using a visual designer (GUI) on the Azure portal or VIsual Studio.
    - Each time the trigger fires, the Logic Apps engine creates a logic app instance.
    - Only runs on the cloud.
- Both can create complex orchestrations (a collection of functions or steps that are executed to accomplish a task), and you can use both (mix and match).

### Windows Virtual Desktop

- Is a desktop and application virtualization service that runs on the cloud.
- Multi-platform. Works with any remote desktop access software.
- Benefits and features:
  - Great user experience.
  - Enhanced security
    - Centralized security management for users with Azure AD.
    - MFA, role-based access controls (RBACs), etc.
    - Data and apps are separated from their local hardware.
  - Simplified management
    - Tools to automate deployments, manage updates, provide disaster recovery, monitoring and alerts.
  - Performance management
    - Load balance users.
  - Multi-session Windows 10 deployment
    - Enables multiple concurrent users o a single VM.
- You can reduce costs by bringing your own licenses (Microsoft 365) and buying longer term licenses (1 or 3 year), versus pay-as-you-go (up to 72% savings).

### Additional resources for this module

- [Azure compute SAP HANA](https://azure.microsoft.com/product-categories/compute)
- [Virtual Machines documentation ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/)
- [Windows virtual machines in Azure ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/)
- [Linux virtual machines in Azure ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/)
- [Azure App Service documentation ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/)
- [Azure Container Instances ](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-instances)
- [Azure Kubernetes Service ](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/kubernetes-service)
- [Azure Functions documentation ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/)
- [Windows Virtual Desktop documentation ](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/)
