# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best Azure IoT service for your application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/iot-fundamentals/)

### Intro

- IoT enables devices with sensors (physical world) and an internet connection to communicate with cloud-based systems (digital world).
- With Azure IOT services it is possible to control/manage the multiple devices (to push updates, for e.g.), as well as monitorization.
- It enables devices to gather and then relay information for data analytics.
- Collected data can also be combined with Azure AI services to make predictions.

#### Common sensors

- Environmental sensors for temperature and humidity levels.
- Barcode, QR code, (etc), scanners.
- Geo-location and proximity sensors.
- Light, color, infrared.
- Motion and touch.
- Accelerometer and tilt.
- Smoke, gas, alcohol.
- Mechanical sensors to detect anomalies.
- Flow, level, and pressure sensors.

### Product Options

#### Azure IoT Hub

- A managed cloud service that acts as the central message hub for bi-directional communication berween IoT apps and the devices it manages.
  (from device to the cloud and from the cloud to the device)
- Allows *command* and *control* (manual or automated remote control of the connected devices).
- Millions of IoT devices can communicate with each other.
- Supports multiple messaging patterns:
    - Device-to-cloud telemetry.
    - File upload from devices.
    - Request-reply methods for controlling devices from the cloud.

#### Azure IoT Central

- A **dashboard on top of IoT Hub**.
- For collection, monitorization and management of multiple IoT devices.
- IoT device remote control and visualization.
- Can be integrated with other Azure products.
- **Provides starter infrastructure templates for common scenarios**.
- Provides device templates.
    - Device developers still need to create code to run on the devices, and that code must match the device template specification.

#### [Azure Sphere](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/azure-sphere/)

- Creates an end-to-end, highly secure solution for IoT devices.
- Includes enverything from the hardware and OS on the device, to the method of sending messages from device to the message hub.
- Components:
    - MCU
        - [Micro-controller unit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microcontroller/)
            - Small integrated circuit computer.
        - Processes the OS system and signals from attached sensors.
        - MSFT offers multiple starter dev kits.
    - OS
        - Customized Linux OS.
    - Security Service (AS3)
        - Makes sure the device has not been compromised.
        - Functioning:
            - Manages the secure connection to Azure, using **certificate-based authentication**.
            - If the authentication is successfull, it checks if the device has been tampered with.
            - After the **secure channel of communication** is established, it pushes OS or user-developed software updates.

### Decision Criteria

(Needs)

- Security/integrity is critical
    - **Azure Sphere**
- Dashboard for reporting and management
    - *Need*: **IoT Central**.
    - *No need*: use the raw **Azure IoT Hub**.
        - When a client only wants to connect to the remote devices to receive telemetry and/or push updates.

---

[< Previous](2.7_describe-core-azure-services_databases.md) | [Next >](3.2_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_AI-services.md)
