# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best Azure serverless technology for your business scenario](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/serverless-fundamentals/)

### Intro

- An execution environment managed by the cloud provider.
- Abstracts the underlying hosting environment.
- The cloud provider is responsible for the scalability, maintenance, infrastructure configuration, etc.
- The client is billed only for the resources they use.
- Development usability:
    - Create an instance of the service.
    - Specify what is needed to happend by writing the code or use a visual editor.
    - Specify the actions/events that trigger the previously defined functionality.
- Examples of events:
    - Timer.
    - HTTP requests.
    - A new message on a queue.
    - Message from another Azure service.

### Product Options (serverless computing services)

#### Azure Functions

- Serverless compute service.
- Ability to host a single method/function, that responds to an event.
- Scales automaticaly.
- They run on a stateless environment (no state persistance).
- For orchestration tasks, the extension Durable Functions can be used, which allow developers to chain functions togheter whilw maintaining state.
- Reasons to use:
    - The only concern is the code, not the underlying platform/infrastructure.
    - When it's needed to perform work in reponse to an event.
    - When computation can be completed within seconds or less.

##### Azure Logic Apps

- Low-code/no-code develpment platform hosted as a cloud service.
- Serverless orchestration service.
- Can connect a large array of different services via their APIs.
- The service helps you automate and orchestrate tasks, business processes, and workflows when you need to integrate apps, data, systems, and services across enterprises or organizations.
- Pricing is based on the number of executions and the type of connectors that it utilizes.
- Glossary:
    - Trigger: is an event
    - Action: a task or step that can execute.
    - Connectors: for integrating with enterprise solutions like SAP, Salesforce, etc.

---

[< Previous](3.2_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_AI-services.md) | [Next >](3.4_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_devops.md)
