# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best tools to help organizations build better solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-devops-devtest-labs/) (DevOps)

### Intro

- Align technical teams as they work toward common goals.
- Set of practices and processes to automate ongoing development, maintenance, and deployment of software systems.
- MSFT offers tools to enable:
    - Source-code management.
    - Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD).
    - Automated creation of testing environments.

### Product Options

#### Azure DevOps Services (suite)

- **Azure Repos**
    - Centralized source-code repo, for code hosting, development, review and collaboration.
- **Azure Boards**
    - Agile project management.
    - Kanban boards, reporting, tracking of ideas, work items and issues.
    - Highly customizable.
- **Azure Pipelines**
    - CI/CD pipeline automation tool.
- **Azure Artifacts**
    - Repository to host artifacts, such as compiled code, which can be fed into testing or deployment pipelines.
- **Azure Test Plans**
    - Automated test tool.
    - Can be used as a CI/CD pipeline to ensure quality before a software release.

#### GitHub and GitHub Actions

- Shared source-code repo, including tools for code reviews.
- Project management, including Kanban boards.
- Supports issue reporting, discussion, and tracking.
- Wiki for collaborative documentation.
- Run from the cloud or on-premises.
- CI/CD pipeline automation tools (**GitHub Actions**):
    - Enables workflow automation with triggers for multiple lifecycle events, such as automating a CI/CD <u>toolchain</u>.
    - Toolchain:
        - Combinations of software tools that aid in the delivery, development, and management of software, throughout it's development lifecycle.
        - The output of one tool is the input of the next.
    - E.g tools:
        - Automated dependency updates.
        - Building and configuring the software.
        - Delivering the build artifacts to multiple locations.
        - Testing.
        - (etc.)

#### Azure DevTest Labs

- Provides automated means of managing the process of building, setting up and tearing down VMs that contains builds of a project for testing purposes.
- Possible to perform tests across a variety of environments and builds.
    - E.g: Testing a new feature on an old version of an OS.

### Decision Criteria

(All 3 services can be mixed and matched)

- Need: automation and management of test-lab creations
    - Azure DevTest Labs.
    - It is also possible to automate the provisioning of new labs as part of a toolchain with Azure Pipelines or GitHub Actions.
- Need: building open-source software
    - GitHub.
    - Azure DevOps can publish public code repositories too.
- Need: level of granularity/variety for permissions
    - High: Azure DevOps.
    - Low: GitHub (simpler read/write permissions only).
- Need: level of sophistication of project management and reporting
    - High: Azure DevOps (more features and more customizable).
    - Lower: GitHub (more simpler issues and Kanban board systems).
- Need: integration with third-party tools
    - Most tool vendors create hooks or APIs for both Azure Pipelines and GitHub actions, however, it's important to validate before.

#### Chose Azure DevOps vs. GitHub

- GitHub is lighter-weight, with a focus on open-source code contribution.
- Azure DevOps is more focused on enterprise dev, with heavier project-management and planning tools, and access control.
- It is possible to mix and match both.

---

[< Previous](3.3_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_serverless.md) | [Next >](3.5_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_management.md)
