# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best tools for managing and configuring your Azure environment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/management-fundamentals/)

### Intro

- For administrators, developers, managers.
- Interact with cloud magement tools to:
    - Deploy hundreds of resources at a time.
    - Configure individual services programatically.
    - View rich reports across usage, health, costs, etc.

### Product Options

- There are two broad categories of management tools:
    - Visual.
    - Code-based.
- **Infrastructure as code**:
    - Managing hardware resources and cloud resources through code stored in a source code management tool (Git).
    - Types:
        - Imperative code
            - Details each individual step that shoud be performed for the desired outcome.
        - Declarative code
            - (ARM Templates).
            - Only details the desired outcome.
            - Allows the interpreter to decide how to best achieve that outcome.

#### Azure Portal

- A web UI for all Azure services.
- Uses:
    - View services in use.
    - Create new services.
    - Configure services in use.
    - View reports.

#### Azure mobile app

- IOS and Android.
- Uses:
    - Monitor health and status of resources in use.
    - Check for alert.
    - Diagnose and fix issues.
    - Restart a web app or a VM.
    - Run Azure CLI and Azure PowerShell commands.

#### Azure PowerShell

- A shell where developers and DevOps/IT professionals can **execute commands called cmdlets**.
- The commands call the Azure Rest API.
- Imperative code.
- **cmdlets**:
    - «command-lets»
    - **Can perform every possible management task**.
    - Can be executed independently.
    - Can be combined into a script file to execute togheter and orchestrate:
        - Routine setup, teardown, maintenance of the resources.
        - Deployment of and entire infrastructure, from imperative code.
    - Makes the process repeatable and automatable.
- Available for Windows, Linux, Mac, and browser via **Azure Cloud Shell**.

#### Azure CLI

- Command-line interface to **execute commands in Bash**.
- The commands call the Azure Rest API.
- Imperative code.
- Also multiplatform.
- **The only difference from Azure PowerShell is the syntax, Azure CLI uses Bash**.

#### ARM Templates

- Azure Resource Manager templates.
- Declarative code.
- **Describe the resources in a declarative JSON format**.
- **The template then orchestrates and validates the creation of the resources in parallel**.
- It is **possible to execute PowerShell and Bash scripts** before and after the resource has been set up.

### Decision Criteria

- Need: Perform one-off management, administration, or reporting actions:
    - Best suited for simple tasks: Azure Portal or Azure mobile app.
    - For more complex tasks: Azure CLI or PowerShell (more flexible and complete).
- Need: Repeatedly set up one or more resources and ensure proper order:
    - Best suited: ARM templates.
- Need: Windows vs Linux admin background:
    - Windows: Azure PowerShell.
    - Linux: Azure CLI.

---

[< Previous](3.4_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_devops.md) | [Next >](3.6_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_monitoring.md)
