# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best monitoring service for visibility, insight, and outage mitigation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/monitoring-fundamentals/)

### Intro

- Gain visibility into the health and performance of all services and the hosting environment.
- Solutions to:
    - Quickly react to outages.
    - Research intermittent/unplanned issues.
    - Optimize usage.
    - Proactivity in handling future planned downtime.
    - Optimize cloud usage/spending/cost.

### Product Options

#### Azure Advisor

- For **optimization**.
- Analysis the usage and configuration of deployed resources and provides recommendations to improve:
    - Reliability.
    - Security.
    - Performance.
    - Cost (**cloud spend**).
- Accessible through the Azure Portal.

#### Azure Monitor

- Track and diagnose issues based on telemetry/metrics data and custom events (e.g.: intermittent errors).
- Colect, analyze, visualize **metric** and **logging** data from the entire Azure and on-premises invironment.
- It can also potentialy take action/react/respond (**alerts**, **autoscale**).
- Possible to view high-level reports, or create custom views with Power BI and Kusto queries.
- Powers Application Insights.

#### Azure Service Health

- Provides a personalized view to monitor the **health status of Azure itself** and stay on top of planned outages, that affect deployed resources.
- For an outage, Service Health provides official incident reports (**root cause analyses**/RCAs).
- Event types:
    - Service issues (outages).
    - Planned maintenance (can affect availability).
    - Health advisories:
        - Requires the customer to act to avoid service interruption.
        - Service retirements, breaking changes, etc.
- Possible to set up alerts.

### Desision Criteria

- Need: Analyze usage to reduce costs, improve resilience, harden security.
    - Use Azure Advisor.
- Need: Monitor Azure services or usage.
    - Use Azure Service Health, to monitor Azure itself.
    - Use Azure Monitor, to track performance or issues related to specific resources like a VM or container, DB, app, etc.
- Need: Measure custom events and other usage metrics/telemetry data.
    - Use Azure Monitor.
- Need: Set up alerts for outages or when autoscaling is about to deploy new instances.
    - Use Azure Monitor.
