# [Describe core solutions and management tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-core-solutions-management-tools-azure/)

## [Choose the best AI service for your needs - Learn | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/ai-machine-learning-fundamentals/)

### Intro

- AI is a category of computing that adapts and improves its decision-making ability over time, based on its successes and failures.
- The goal of AI is to adapt or learn something without being explicitly programmed to do it.
- E.g.:
  - Product recommendations specific for a user, based on past sale data, from him or others who have purchased similar items.
  - Detect credit card fraud by analysing new transactions, based on past fraudulent transaction data.
- Two main AI approaches:
  - Deep learning
    - Modelled on the neural network of the human mind.
    - Discovers, learns and grows through experience.
  - Machine learning
    - Data science approach that uses existing data to train and test a model.
    - The model is then applied to new data, to forecast future behaviours, outcomes and trends.
- MSFT Azure provides multiple (3 primary) AI solutions, including tools, services, and programmatic APIs.

### Azure Machine Learning

- A platform for making predictions.
- Tools and services that allow to connect to data to train and test models, and find one that will most accurately predict a future result.
- Real time deployment vie a web API endpoint.
- Uses:
  - Create data pipelines.
    - [Data Pipeline (atlan.com)](https://wiki.atlan.com/data-pipeline/)
    - [What Is a Data Pipeline? - DZone Big Data](https://dzone.com/articles/what-is-a-data-pipeline)
    - (define how to obtain data, handle missing or bad data, split it into multiple training or test sets, etc.)
  - Train and evaluate predictive models, with familiar tools and programming languages.
  - Deployment as an API to an endpoint, so it can be consumed in real time by other applications.

### Azure Cognitive Services

- Provides prebuilt (pretrained) machine learning models.
- Used for general problems.
- No ML or data science knowledge needed to use the services.
- Accessed via APIs.
- Service categories:
  -  Language ([NLP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing))
  - Speech (convert speech into text and text into natural-sounding speech, translation, speaker/voice verification and recognition)
  - Vision (picture, video, etc. recognition and identification)
  - Decision (personalized recommendations, content moderation, etc.)

### Azure Bot Service

- [Azure Bot Service ](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/bot-service/) and [Bot Framework ](https://dev.botframework.com/) are platforms for creating bots that understand and reply to questions like a human.
- Different from Azure ML and Azure Cognitive Services because it has a specific use case (a communication bot).
- Can be used to help in simple and repetitive tasks, answer questions, UX to access services.
- Interaction/conversation through text, speech.
