# [Describe general security and network security features](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-general-security-network-security-features/)

## [Protect against security threats on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/protect-against-security-threats-azure/)

### Intro

- Security tools that keep cloud infrastructures and data safe.
- Many Azure services include built-in security features.

### Product Options

#### Azure Security Center

- For protection against security threats.
- Monitoring service that provides visibility of the **security posture** of a client across all services in use.
- Has a dashboard, and can also send alerts that are responded by the client.
- Possible to combine Security Center with Logic Apps for worflow automation, in responding to the alerts by running an action.
- Security posture:
    - Cybersecurity policies and controls.
    - Ensures how an organization complies with assigned security standard policies.
    - How well can a client predict, prevent, respond to security threats.
- Features:
    - Monitor security settings across on-premises and cloud.
    - Automatically apply required security settings to new resources.
    - Provide security recomendations based on current configs/resources/networks.
    - Monitor and perform auto assessments to identify vulnerabilities before they can be exploited.
    - Use ML to detect and block malware from being installed on resources (e.g.: VMs).
        - Possible to use **adaptive application controls** to define rules of allowed applications.
    - Detect and analyse inbound attacks.
    - Monitor internet traffic patterns, and perform recomendations on those (**adaptive network hardening**).
    - Provide **just-in-time access control** for network ports.
    - **File integrity monitoring** of important files, settings, etc.
- Secure score:
    - Measurement of an organization's security posture.
    - Based on **security controls**, or groups of related security recommendations satisfied.

#### Azure Sentinel

- To detect and respond to security threats.
- A dedicated **Security Information and Event Management** (SIEM) system.
- It aggregates security data from many different <u>open-standard logging format</u> sources.
- Also can detect threats.
- Features:
    - Collect cloud data at scale (across on-premises and multiple clouds).
    - Detect previously undetected threats.
    - Investigate threats with AI.
    - Respond to incidents rapidly, with built-in orchestration and automation of common tasks.
- Steps:
    1. Connect data sources
        - Sources:
            - MSFT solutions, real-time (e.g: Microsoft 365, Azure Active Directory, Windows Defender Firewall, etc.)
            - External services and solutions (e.g.: AWS CloudTrail, Citrix Analytics, Sophos XG Firewall, etc.)
            - Industry-standard data sources (any other source that uses the Common Event Format - [**CEF**](https://ldapwiki.com/wiki/Common%20Event%20Format) - messaging standard, Syslog, or Rest API)
    2. Threat detection
        - Built in analytics
            - Templates designed by MSFT.
            - Analyses common threats and attack vectors.
            - Can be customized.
            - Some use SUPER ADVANCED **AI**.
        - Custom analytics
            - Rules created by the user.
    3. Investigate and respond
        - With a dashboard that has a graph with info.
        - Azure Monitor Playbooks can be used to automate respondes to threats.
            - Monitor Playbooks makes use of Logic Apps.

#### Azure Key Vault

- A centralized cloud service for storing an application's secrets in a single location.
- Provides secure access to sensitive information with access control and logging capabilities.
- Features:
    - Manage secrets, e.g.:
        - Tokens.
        - Encryption keys.
        - Passwords.
        - SSL/TLS cerificates.
        - API keys.
        - Secrets backed by hardware security modules (HSMs)
- Benefits:
    - Centralized app secrets for better control.
    - Securely stored secrets and keys.
    - Access monitoring and access control.
    - Simplified administration of app secrets (enroll and renew from public CAs).
    - Integration with other Azure services.

#### Azure Dedicated Hosting

- Dedicated hosrting.
- Pricing: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/virtual-machines/dedicated-host

### Learn More

- Azure Security Center
    - [Take the Resolve security threats with Azure Security Center module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/resolve-threats-with-azure-security-center/)
    - [Planning and operations guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/security-center-planning-and-operations-guide)
- Azure Sentinel
    - [Take the Design a holistic monitoring strategy on Azure module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/design-monitoring-strategy-on-azure/)
    - [Connect data sources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/sentinel/connect-data-sources)
- Azure Key Vault
    - [Take the Manage secrets in your server apps with Azure Key Vault module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/manage-secrets-with-azure-key-vault/)
    - [Take the Configure and manage secrets in Azure Key Vault module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/configure-and-manage-azure-key-vault/)

---

[< Previous](3.6_describe-core-solutions-and-management-tools_monitoring.md) | [Next >](4.2_describe-general-security-and-network-security_network.md)
