## [Choose the best tools to help organizations build better solutions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/azure-devops-devtest-labs/) (DevOps)

### Into

- Align technical teams as they work toward common goals.
- Set of practices and processes to automate development, maintenance, and deployment of software systems.
- Aim: expedite release of software changes, ensure ongoing deployability, and high quality.
- MSFT offers tools to enable source-code management, continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD), and automated creation of testing environments.

### Azure DevOps Services (suite)

- Azure Repos
  - Centralized source-code repo, for code hosting, review and collaboration.
- Azure Boards
  - Agile project management.
  - Kanban boards, reporting, tracking of ideas, work items and issues.
- Azure Pipelines
  - CI/CD pipeline automation tool.
- Azure Artifacts
  - Repo to host artifacts, such as compiled code, which can be fed into testing or deployment pipelines.
- Azure Test Plans
  - Automated test too.
  - Can be used as a CI/CD pipeline to ensure quality before a software release.

### GitHub and GitHub Actions

- Shared source-code repo, including tools for code reviews.
- Project management, including Kanban boards.
- Supports issue reporting, discussion, and tracking.
- Wiki for collaborative documentation.
- Run from the cloud or on-premises.
- CI/CD pipeline automation tools (GitHub Actions)
  - Enables workflow automation with triggers for multiple lifecycle events, such as automating a CI/CD toolchain.
  - Toolchain:
    - Combinations of software tools that aid in the delivery, development, and management of software, throughout it's development lifecycle.
    - The output of one tool is the input of the next.
  - E.g tools:
    - Automated dependency updates.
    - Building and configuring the software.
    - Delivering the build artifacts to multiple locations.
    - Testing.
    - (etc.)

### Chose Az DevOps vs. GitHub

- GitHub is lighter-weight, with a focus on open-source code contribution.
- Az DevOps is more focused on enterprise dev, with heavier project-management and planning tools, and access control.

### Az DevTest Labs

- Provides automated means of managing the process of building, setting up VMs for testing purposes.
- E.g: Testing a new feature on an old version of an OS.
