# [Describe general security and network security features](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-general-security-network-security-features/)

## [Secure network connectivity on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/secure-network-connectivity-azure/)

---

### Intro

- Every application and service needs to be designed with security in mind (before deployment).
- Security issues examples:
    - DoS, DDoS.
    - Data breach.

---
---

### Defense in depth

- The objective is to protect information and prevent it from being stolen by unauthorized access.
- A defense-in-depth strategy uses a series of mechanisms to slow an unauthorized access attack.

#### Layers of defense in depth

Each layer provides protection to the subsequent layer, with telemetry alerts.

- Physical security
    - First line of defence.
    - To **protect hardware in the datacenter**.
    - Phisical safeguards.
- Identity & access
    - **Controls access** to infrastructure and change control.
    - SSO (single sign-on, multifactor authentication).
    - Audit events and changes.
- Perimeter
    - **Protection against DDoS** (distribured denial of service).
    - Filters large scale attacks.
    - Perimeter firewalls to identify and alert malicious attacks-
- Network
    - **Limits communication** between resources through segmentation and access controls.
    - Deny access by default.
    - Restrict inboud traffic and limit outbound access.
- Compute
    - **Secures access to VMs**.
    - Implement endpoint protection on devices, keep systems updated.
- Application
    - **Ensures an application is secure**, free of security vulnerabilities.
    - Store secrets in a secure storage medium.
    - Security should be a design requirement in the application development lifecycle.
    - Reduce number of vulnerabilities introduced in code.
- Data
    - **Controls access to** business and customer **data**.
    - Data stored in a DB, HD/SSD inside VM, SaaS, cloud storage.

---
---

### Security posture

- The organization's ability to protect from and respond to security threats.

#### Common principles

- Confidentiality
    - Principle of least privilege.
    - Restrict access to information only to individuals that need to perform work.
    - Information includes:
        - Passwords.
        - Email content.
        - Access levels to applications and underlying infrastructure.
- Integrity
    - Prevent unauthorized changes to information at rest and in transit.
    - E.g.: Checksum between sender and receiver.
- Availability
    - Ensure services are functioning and can be accessed only by authorized users.
    - DoS are designed to degrade availability of a system.

---
---

### Product options

---

#### Azure Firewall

- Firewall:
    - A network security device.
    - Monitors incoming and outgoing traffic. Blocks or allows it, based on a set rules.
- A managed, cloud-based network security service
- Protects resources in Azure virtual networks.
- A stateful firewall (analyzes the complete context of a network connection, not just an individual packet).
- Provides a central location to create, enforce and log application and network connectivity policies across subscriptions and VNets.
- Uses a static public IP for the VNet resources, which enables outside firewalls to identify incoming traffic.
- Integrated with Azure Monitor.
- It can configure:
    - Application rules that define fully qualified domain names (FQDN) that can be accessed from a subnet.
    - Network rules that define source address, protocol, destination port and address.
    - Network Address Translation ([NAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation)) rules that define destination IP addresses and ports to translate inbound requests.
- It also has the Azure Application Gateway, a web application firewall (WAF).

---

#### Azure DDoS Protection

- DDoS attack:
    - Distributed denial of service.
    - Attempts to flood and clog an applications resources.
    - Makes it slow and unresponsive.
    - Attacks anu publicly reachable resource.
- Helps protect cloud applications by analyzing and discarding DDoS traffic, at the Azure network edge.
- Identifies the attacker and blocks further traffic from them.
- The Azure global network is used to distribute and mitigate attack traffic across Azure regions.

##### Service tiers

- Basic:
    - Automatically enabled for free.
- Standard:
    - Provides additional mitigation capabilities.
    - No changes to applications is needed.
    - Policies are tuned through dedicated traffic monitoring and ML algos.

##### Types of DDoS attacks it can help prevent

- Volumetric attacks
    - It floods the network layer with subtantials amounts of seemingly legitimate traffic.
- Protocol attacks
    - Exploits weaknesses in the layer 3 (network) and 4 (transport) protocol stack ([OSI model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model)).
- Resource-layer (app-layer) attacks with web application firewall.
    - Targets web application packets to disrupt transmission between hosts.
    - Exploits layer 7 (application) weaknesses.

---

#### Network Security Groups (NSG)

- Protects networks internally.
- Enables network filtering to and from Azure resources within an Azure VNet.
- An NSG can contain multiple inbound and outbound security rules, for filtering source and destination IP addresses (unique, or ranges), ports (single, or range), protocols.
- Azure creates a series of default rules for a baseline level of security.
    - It's not possible to remove them, but they can be overridden by higher priority ones.
- [MS Docs - Network security groups](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/network-security-groups-overview#network-security-groups?azure-portal=true)

---
---

### Combining services

- Perimeter layer:
    - Use Azure DDoS Protection.
    - Use perimeter firewalls with Azure Firewalls.
- Network layer:
    - Use network security groups.
- etc.

---

[< Previous](4.1_describe-general-security-and-network-security_security.md) | [Next >](5.1_describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance_identity.md)
