# [Describe identity, governance, privacy, and compliance features](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance-features/)

## [Secure access to your applications by using Azure identity services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/secure-access-azure-identity-services/)

### Intro

- Identiy has become the new primary security boundary.
- Proving someone is a valid user, with appropriate level of access, is critical to maintain the control of data.
- The identity layer is now the more often the target of network attacks.

### Authentication vs Authorization

- Both occur sequentially in the identity and access process.

#### Authentication

- AuthN
- Process of establishing the identity of a person or service that wants to access a resource.
- Establishes whether the user is who they say they are.
- Asks for a user's legitimate credentials.

#### Authorization

- AuthZ
- Process of establishing what level of access an authenticated person or service has.
- Specifies what data they're allowed to access and what they can do with it.

### Product Options

#### Azure Active Directory

- Provides cloud-based identity and access management sevices for user sign-in.
- Types of users:
    - IT admins
    - App developers
    - Users
    - Online sevice subscibers (SaaS apps)
- Provided services:
    - Authentication
        - Verifying identity to access applications and resources.
        - Password resets.
        - **Multifactor authentication**.
        - Custom list of banned passwords (prevents users from using known compromised passwords).
        - Smart lockout services.
    - **Single sign-on (SSO)**
        - Single credentials to access multiple resources and applications.
        - Sign in one time.
        - Reason: the more passwords a user has to manage, the greater the risk of credential-related security incidents.
    - Application management
    - Device management
        - Registration of devices.
        - **Device-based conditional access policies**. Restrict access only from known devices.
- Types of resources Azure AD secures:
    - External (e.g.: Microsoft 365, SaaS apps, etc.).
    - Internal.
- Connection between on-premises AD and Azure AD:
    - There are multiple ways, the most popular is obviously Azure AD Connect. It synchronizes user identities from both.

##### Multifactor Authentication

- Process where the user is prompted for additional form of authentication during the sign-in process.
- Increases identity secutity by limiting the impact of credential exposure.
- Categories of additional auth elements:
    - Something the user knows (e.g.: email, password).
    - Something the user has (e.g.: code send to phone).
    - Something the user is - biometric property (e.g.: fingerprint, face scan).
- Azure AD service
    - Multi-factor auth on the free edition for administrators with the *global admin* level of access.
    - Premium subscriptons (P1 or P2 licenses) allows for more granular configurations.

##### Conditional Access

- Allows or denies access to resources based on identity *signals* (i.e. conditions).
- Signals e.g.:
    - Who the user is.
    - Where the user is.
    - What device the user is using.
- Allows for a better user experience (e.g.: user does not need to re-auth if they're at a known location).
- When to use (need):
    - Require multifactor auth to access an application (possible to choose which users require MFA).
    - Require access to services only through approved client apps.
    - Require users to access an app only from managed devices.
    - Block access from untrusted sources.
- "What If" tool helps to plan and troubleshoot Conditional Access policies.
- For premium subscriptions only (P1 or P2 licenses), and MSFT 365 Business Premium license.

---

### Learn more

- [Compare Active Directory to Azure Active Directory](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-compare-azure-ad-to-ad/)
- [Azure Active Directory](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/active-directory/)
- [What is single sign-on (SSO)?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/what-is-single-sign-on/)
- [Azure Active Directory Seamless Single Sign-On](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/how-to-connect-sso)
- [What is Azure AD Connect?](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/whatis-azure-ad-connect/)
- [Azure AD Multi-Factor Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks)
- [Azure AD Conditional Access](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/)

---

[< Previous](4.2_describe-general-security-and-network-security_network.md) | [Next >](5.2_describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance_governance.md)
