# [Describe identity, governance, privacy, and compliance features](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance-features/)

## [Examine privacy, compliance, and data protection standards on Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/examine-privacy-compliance-data-protection-standards/)

### Intro

- *Compliance* means to adhere to a law, standard, or set of guidelines.
- *Regulatory compliance* refers to the discipline and process of ensuring that a company follows the laws that governing bodies enforce.
- MSFT online services build upon a common set of regulatory and compliance controls.
- *Control*: Known good standard for comparison.

### Types of compliance offerings (examples of the most popular)

- Global
    - (CSA) STAR Certification
        - Cloud Security Alliance STAR Certification.
        - Azure, Intune, and Microsoft Power BI have obtained one.
        - Independent third-party assessment of a cloud provider's security posture.
    - ISO/IEC 27018
        - International Organization of Standards/International Electrotechnical Commission 27018.
        - Covers the processing of personal information by cloud service providers.
- US Governament
    - CJIS
        - Any US state or local agency that has access to the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) DB need to adhere to this.
        - [Yeah](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/news/252505403/FBI-watchlist-exposed-by-misconfigured-Elasticsearch-cluster)
- Industry
    - HIPAA BAA
        - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Business Associate Agreement.
        -  Stipulates adherence to certain security and privacy provisions in HIPAA and the HITECH Act
- Regional
    - EU Model Clauses
        - European Union Model Clauses.
        - Provides contractual guarantees around transfers of personal data outside of the EU.

### Privacy

####  Microsoft Privacy Statement

- Explains what personal data Microsoft collects, how Microsoft uses it, and for what purposes.
- It covers every service.
- Link to the [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-US/privacystatement).

#### Online Services Terms (OST)

- Legal agreement between Microsoft and the customer.
- Details the obligations by both parties with respect to the processing and security of customer data and personal data.
- Applies specifically to Microsoft's online services licensed through a subscription.
- Link to the [Online Services Terms (Universal License Terms - For Online Services)](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/terms/product/ForallOnlineServices).

#### Data Protection Addendum (DPA)

- Further defines the data processing and security terms for online services.
- Includes:
    - Compliance with laws.
    - Disclosure of processed data.
    - Data Security, which includes security practices and policies, data encryption, data access, customer responsibilities, and compliance with auditing.
    - Data transfer, retention, and deletion.
- Accessable through the [Licensing Resources and Documents](https://www.microsoft.com/licensing/docs)

### Trust Center

- Objective: to stay up to date on the latest security standards for protecting data.
- Access information around how the Microsoft cloud helps secure sensitive data and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
- Showcases Microsoft's principles for maintaining data integrity in the cloud.
- All about the how they do it. Information. Resources. Links.
- For: people in an organization who might play a role in security, privacy, and compliance.
- Access doesn't require an Azure subscription or a Microsoft account.
- Link to the [Trust Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en/trust-center).

### Azure compliance documentation

- Provides detailed documentation about legal and regulatory standards and compliance on Azure.
- (The standards seen above at "Types of compliance offerings").
- Categories:
    - Global
    - US government
    - Financial services
    - Health
    - Media and manufacturing
    - Regional
- Link to the [Azure compliance documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/).

### Azure Government

- Is a separate instance of the Microsoft Azure service.
- It addresses the security and compliance needs of US federal agencies, state and local governments, and their solution providers.
- Offers physical isolation from non-US government deployments and provides screened US personnel.
- Is available in eight geographies and offers the most compliance certifications of any cloud provider.
- Azure Geography: an area of the world that contains at least one Azure region (countries).

### Azure China 21Vianet

- Link to the [Azure China Playbook](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/china/).
- It's a physically separated instance of cloud services located in China.
- Is independently operated and transacted by Shanghai, a wholly owned subsidiary of Beijing.
- Only locally registered companies with less than 50 percent foreign investment qualify for value-added telecom permits.

---

[< Previous](5.2_describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance_governance.md) | [Next >](6.1_describe-cost-management-and-SLA_costs.md)
