# [Describe Azure cost management and service level agreements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-azure-cost-management-service-level-agreements/)

## [Plan and manage your Azure costs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/plan-manage-azure-costs/)

### Intro

- Azure has tools to help estimate and manage the costs of running workloads in the Az cloud.

### Plan <<

#### Total Cost of Ownership Calculator

- [TCO Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/tco/calculator).
- Helps to compare and estimate the cost savings of operating an on-premises datacenter versus running on Azure over time.
- *Total cost of ownership*::
    - Term commonly used in finance.
    - Financial estimate intended to help determine the direct and indirect costs of a product or service.
- An Azure subscription is not needed to work with the TCO Calculator.
- Steps:
    - Define your workloads
        - Enter the specifications of the on-premises infrastructure.
        - Categories:
            - Servers/compute (OS, VMs, CPU cores, etc).
            - Databases.
            - Storage (e.g.: backup, archive storage).
            - Networking (network bandwidth currently consumed on-premises).
    - Adjust assumptions
        - Specify whether your current on-premises licenses are enrolled for [Software Assurance](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/licensing/licensing-programs/software-assurance-default).
        - Can save money by reusing those licenses on Az.
        - Specify need to replicate storage to another Azure region for greater redundancy.
        - Shows key operating cost assumptions across several different areas.
            - E.g.: Electricity (KWh), hourly pay rates for IT labor, etc.
    - View the report
        - Generates a report based on the provided info.
        - Side-by-side comparison of the cost breakdown.

#### Purchase Azure services

##### Types of Az subscriptions

- Free trial
    - 12 months of popular free services.
    - Credit to explore any Az service for 30 days.
    - 25 services always free.
    - Services are disabled when trial ends or credit expires for paid products, unless upgrade to paid.
- Pay-as-you-go
    - User pays for what they use.
    - A credit or debit card needs to be attached to the account.
- Member offers
    - Some MSFT products and services provide free credits and reduced rates on Az.
    - E.g.: Visual Studio, Microsoft Partner Network, Microsoft for Startups, Microsoft Imagine.

##### How to purchase

- Through an Enterprise Agreement
    - Enterprise customers, can sign an Enterprise Agreement with MSFT.
    - Commits them to spending a predetermined amount on Az services over a period of three years.
    - Typically paid annually.
    - Best customized pricing.
- Directly from the web
    - Directly from the Azure portal website ("Web Direct").
    - Pay standard prices.
    - Billed monthly (through credit card or invoice).
- Through a Cloud Solution Provider
    - A Microsoft Partner, like a consulting firm.
    - They bill, help build solutions, answer support questions.

##### Factors that affect cost

- Resource type
    - Type, performance tier, access tier.
- Usage meters
    - E.g.:
        - CPU time.
        - Time spent with a public PT address.
        - Incoming (ingress) and outgoing (egress) network traffic in and out of the VM (bandwidth usage).
        - Disk size and amount of disk IO operations.
- Resource usage
    - Charged based on what user uses.
    - E.g.: Deallocating a VM, VM no longer running, but the associated hard disks and data are still kept in Azure. So, no compute or bandwith costs, but billed for disk storage (because disks and data are still stored).
- Azure subscription types
    - Some subscription types also include usage allowances.
- Azure Marketplace
    - Third-party vendors/services costs.
- Location
    - Different regions have different prices.
    - Geographic regions can impact where network traffic flows.
    - Even if resources are provisioned in lowest price region, if (e.g.) if users are located in different parts of the world, any potential savings can be offset by the additional network usage costs.
- Zones for billing of network traffic
    - Some inbound data transfers are free.
    - For outbound data transfers, data transfer pricing is based on zones.
        - A **zone** is a geographical grouping of Az regions for billing purposes.

##### Estimate the total cost

- [Azure Pricing calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/calculator).
- Displays Azure products in categories.
- Returns the consolidated estimated price, with a detailed breakdown of the costs associated with each resource added.
- Provides estimates and not actual price quotes.
- Configuration options (vary between product, but can include):
    - Region (geographical location).
    - Tier (e.g.: Free tier or Basic tier).
    - Billing options.
    - Support options.
    - Programs and offers (special licensing programs or other offers).
    - Azure Dev/Test pricing.

### Manage and minimize total cost <<

- Recommended practices to help minimize costs:
    - Understand estimated costs before deploy.
        - Of products, services, resources.
        - Read the docs.
        - Calculate projection with Pricing calculator and the (TCO) Calculator.
        - Only add to the subscription what's needed.
    - Use **Azure Advisor** to monitor usage.
        - Identifies unused or underutilized resources and recommends removal.
        - Recommendations are sorted by impact.
    - Use** spending limits** to restrict spending.
        - **Quotas**, or limits on the number of similar resources to provision within a subscription.
    - Use Azure Reservations to prepay.
        - Offers discounted prices on some services.
        - Reserve services and resources by paying in advance.
        - Can save you up to 72%, compared to pay-as-you-go.
    - Choose low-cost locations and regions.
        - Cost vary across locations and regions.
        - But some resources are metered and billed according to outgoing bandwidth.
        - Provision connected resources metered by bandwidth in the same Azure region to reduce egress traffic between them.
    - Research available cost-saving offers.
        - Customer and subscription offers.
    - Use "**Azure Cost Management + Billing**" to control spending.
        - Free service.
        - Helps understand Azure bill, manage account and subscriptions, monitor and control spending, and optimize resource use.
    - Apply **tags** to identify cost owners.
    - Resize or shut down underutilized VMs.
    - **Deallocate** VMs **during off hours**.
        - Save compute costs.
        - Good for dev and test environments.
    - Delete unused resources.
    - Migrate from IaaS to PaaS services.
        - E.g.: Move SQL Server from VM to Azure SQL Database service.
    - Save on licensing costs.
        - Choose cost-effective operating systems.
            - Linux.
        - Use Azure Hybrid Benefit to repurpose software licenses on Azure (from on-premises to cloud).
            - Licenses are covered by [Software Assurance](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/licensing/licensing-programs/software-assurance-default) to be reused.

---

[< Previous](5.3_describe-identity-governance-privacy-compliance_compliance.md) | [Next >](6.2_describe-cost-management-and-SLA_SLAs.md)
