# [Describe Azure cost management and service level agreements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/az-900-describe-azure-cost-management-service-level-agreements/)

## [Choose the right Azure services by examining SLAs and service lifecycle](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/choose-azure-services-sla-lifecycle/)

### Intro

- SLAs can affect application design decisions.

### SLAs <<

- *Service-level agreement*.
- Formal agreement of requirements between a service company and the customer.
- Defines the performanace standards that MSFT commits to the customer.
- Each Az service defines its own SLA.
- Free products typically don't have an SLA.
- No need for subscription to review service SLAs.
- Link to all [SLAs](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/sla).
- Link to the [SLA summary for every service](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/sla/summary).

#### Importance

- Helps understand what guarantees can be expected by each Az service.
- The availability of services that are used affect an application's performance.

#### Structure of an SLA

- Introduction (what to expect, scope, how subscription renewals can affect the terms).
- General terms (terms used, how to submit a claim and receive credit for any issues, limitations).
- SLA details (the specific garantees)
    - Performance commitments.
    - As percentages, usually from 99.9% to 99.99%.
    - Focuses on *uptime* (time operational), *latency* (how fast response is).

#### Percentages relation to total downtime

- *Downtime* refers to the time duration that the service is unavailable.
- Total downtime decreases as the SLA percentage increases from 99% to 99.999% (obviously).

| SLA percentage | Downtime per week | Downtime per month | Downtime per year |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- |
| 99             | 1.68 hours        | 7.2 hours          | 3.65 days         |
| 99.9           | 10.1 minutes      | 43.2 minutes       | 8.76 hours        |
| 99.95          | 5 minutes         | 21.6 minutes       | 4.38 hours        |
| 99.99          | 1.01 minutes      | 4.32 minutes       | 52.56 minutes     |
| 99.999         | 6 seconds         | 25.9 seconds       | 5.26 minutes      |

#### Service credits

- A *service credit* is the percentage of the fees already paid that are credited back to a user, according to the claim approval process.
- An SLA describes how MSFT responds when a service fails to perform to its specification.
- Credits typically increase as uptime decreases.
- E.g. of service credits when SLA fail:
    - Discount on Azure bill.
- How to request a service credit:
    - File a claim with MSFT.
    - If services where purchased through a CSP partner, the CSP manages the claim process.
    - Each SLA specifies the timeline for claim submition (usually by the end of the calendar month) and process by MSFT.

#### Azure status

- [Link](https://status.azure.com/status)
- Provides a global view of the health of Azure services and regions.
- Provides an RSS feed.

#### Define application SLA

- Factors to consider:
    - Business impact.
    - Effect on other business operations.
    - User usage patterns.

#### Design an application to meet the SLA

- Identify workloads.
    - Each workload defines a set of requirements for availability, scalability, data consistency, and disaster recovery.
    - E.g.: Azure Load Balancer + 2 VMs + Azure SQL Database.
- Combine SLAs to compute the **composite SLA** <<
    - To compute the composite SLA for a set of services, you multiply the SLA of each individual service.
    - E.g.
        - Let Azure Virtual Machines SLA = 99.9%
        - Let Azure SQL Database = 99.99%
        - Let Azure Load Balancer = 99.99%
        - `Composite SLA =`
           `99.9% × 99.9% × 99.99% × 99.99%`
           `= 0.999 × 0.999 × 0.9999 × 0.9999`
           `= 0.9978`
           `= 99.78%.`
    - Strategies to improve the SLA
        - Customize workloads options
            - E.g.:
                - Better disks (HDD to SSD)
                - Tiers (free/paid)
        - Build availability requirements
            - Avoid having any single points of failure on an app.
                - E.g.: instead of adding more VMs, deploy extra instances of the same VM across the different availability zones in the same Azure region.
                    - CSLA recalcultation: `99.99 % × 99.99 % × 99.99 % × 99.99 % = 99.96 %`
                    - ***Availability zone* is a unique and independent physical location within an Azure region.**
        - Include **redundancy** to increase availability
            - To ensure high availability.
            - Have duplicate components across several regions.
            -  This includes the application itself and the underlying services and infrastructure.
            - To minimize costs, run the application in a single region during non-critical periods.
            - More difficult, expensive, complex solutions.
            - Consider how critical high availability is, before adding redundancy.
      - Very high performance is difficult to achieve.
          - An SLA of 99.99 percent means 1 minute of downtime per week.
          - Instead, an app must be able to self-diagnose and self-heal during an outage.

### Service lifecycle (for preview services and features)

- Defines how every Azure service is released for public use.
- Every Azure service starts in the development phase.
- Each Azure preview defines its own terms and conditions.
- Work with preview services:
    - Review the [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms).

### Azure updates

- Link to [Azure updates](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/updates).
- Provides information about the latest updates to products, services, features, and product roadmaps and announcements.

---

[< Previous](6.1_describe-cost-management-and-SLA_costs.md)
